---
layout: post
title:  "Recapping part 2: UK issues"
date:   2018-10-25 15:52:00 +0100
---

Here's my obligatory, "I'm sitting in an airport finally updating my blog heading": I'm
sitting in the airport in Santiago (Santiago de Compostela, if you want to google it,
it's the Santiago in Spain, and my tour guide Ana only ever refers to it as Santiago).
For once this blog post isn't ridiculously overdue, but probably only because it's part
2 of a series. Don't get too excited.

The trip to Manchester ended up being much more fun than expected because my layover in
San Francisco was about 8 hours. Something I hadn't noticed until I landed (blame it on
all the chaos of coordinating getting from Shoe's wedding to Manchester). Since I had time
to kill in SF I hit up my step mom Annie (yep, still weird to say that) who grew up here
for suggestions on what to do. I ended up hanging out with her brother Micheal and his
friend Mica (Annie, is is Micah?) involving transporting substances, eating sushi, and
watching a sumo wrestling match. All told it was a fantastic stopover.

Then I got to MAN. MAN, Manchester Airport, hell actualized on earth, concentrated pain
and misery. I do not like this airport. I've had neutral to bad experiences leaving it, and
consistently awful experiences arriving. It takes forever to get through passport control,
finding your bag is painful, whatever. These last two arrivals take the cake.

First of all I spent about 5-10 minutes getting hassled by border control. They eventually
agreed that I was in the UK legally and let me in. Then my bag was gone. It didn't get put
on the plane from SFO. Yay. I know this isn't MAN's fault, but still I hate the place,
so why not blame it?

Fast forward a few days and I'm flying back into MAN from Brussels (don't worry, I'll do a
blog post about that too). Getting though passport control takes 30 minutes (after waiting
in line to get to the front). I'm basically told that I can't be working in the UK without
a visa. This in spite of the fact that I'm here for recruiting purposes, short term, for an
American company paid to an American account, basically I fill every exception they have and
they normally are fine with me coming in. Not this time. This time our conversation ended
"Consider yourself lucky, I was this close to making you go back, sleep in the airport,
and catch the next flight to the states." Have I mentioned I hate the Manchester Airport?