---
layout: post
title:  "Arrow"
date:   2019-11-12 20:51:00 -0800
---

Fair warning: what follows is pretty far from useful. I do hope it's interesting.
I've just got home from eating dinner and while I was there, I was reading about
Arrow's Impossibility theorem and from there Gibbard's Theorem. The theorems are
interesting on their own merit, but I thought I'd use them as a lens to look at
why I think math is so interesting.

Arrow's impossibility theorem is a statement in Social Choice Theory, that is the
theory of voting, but it's also a statement in mathematics. This makes it an
interesting example, because it doesn't look like math the same way arithmetic or
high-school algebra do. What it states is this. Given a ranked-choice voting
system, there's no way one of the following isn't violated:

1. If every voter prefers Alice over Bob, then Alice will win the election
2. If every voters preference between Alice and Bob doesn't change, then the
   relative outcome of Alice and Bob shouldn't change (even if the preference
   of the group between Alice and Joe, or Sally do change)
3. There's no "dictator" who solely determines the election

[Wikipedia explains it](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arrow%27s_impossibility_theorem)
much better than I have here. The core idea I want to get through is that this
statement doesn't really look like mathematics, and that it doesn't talk about a
specific voting system. Pretty much all ways we count votes use "ranked choice":
you can rank your favorites from some list of options. The most common system,
first past the post, is what we use in the US. You get to select one favorite
and whichever candidate gets the most votes wins. There are "better" systems, most
which have your rank the candidates from most preferred to least preferred. Arrow's
theorem supersedes a bunch of weaker results wherein each system is classed as having
various properties such as the
[Condorcet Criterion](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Condorcet_criterion) ("1." above)
and the [Consistency Criterion](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Consistency_criterion).
I believe that historically we tried to define a bunch of properties a voting system
could have and then took specific voting methods and tried to show that they had all
the desirable fairness properties. Arrow's Impossibility Theorem then ruins all that
but showing that two such properties are completely incompatible. No matter how
clever the voting system you concoct, if it uses ranked choice, it will be missing at
least one of them. [Gibbard's Theorem](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gibbard%27s_theorem)
takes this a step further and proves that one of the following must be true, for
**any** deterministic process of collective decision:

1. The process is dictatorial, i.e. there exists a distinguished agent who can impose
    the outcome
2. The process limits the possible outcomes to two options only
3. The process encourages agents to think strategically: once an agent has identified
   their preferences, they have no action at their disposal that would best defend their
   opinions in any situation

This applies to more than just "ranked choice". I'm having a hard time finding a
citation, but while I was reading I came across the claim that Gibbard himself wanted to
clarify that this doesn't mean most elections will go wrong, just that all electoral
systems have the potential to go wrong.

The result is very similar to a result in
Computability theory. People proved all kinds of things that "effective processes"
(now commonly thought of as computer programs) could not determine. There is no computer
program that will decide if another computer program will run forever or eventually stop.
And the [Church-Turing Thesis](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Church–Turing_thesis) says
that this applies to human brains too. I can tell if some computer programs stop, I can
tell if others will run forever, but there will always be some program for which I can't
decide. For decades we came of with results like this, proving this or that which couldn't
be decided about computer programs. Then, in the 1951, Gordon Rice goes and proves that
[you can't say anything nontrivial](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rice%27s_theorem) in
general about various computer programs. Oh sure, you can talk about specific properties
of specific programs, and you can talk about things that are true of all programs, but
you can't divide all programs into two groups based on some meaningful attribute of the
way the program behaves. This is a really disappointing result until you consider that
we can still talk about the properties of a lot of interesting programs (some might say
all). This is why the Impossibility Theorem resonated with me so much. In a way it doesn't
say anything at all. For real-world situations, neither Arrow's nor Rice's Theorems
matter. We can still have electoral processes and compilers, linters, and all the other
tools programmers to do their jobs. In a way it is almost nice, with perfection provably
unattainable, we can always improve our systems.

Okay, so what does all this have to do with my thoughts on studying math? This is math.
This is the math that I find interesting. This doesn't really have anything to do with
numbers (although the proofs of all the above results surely involve them to some extent).
This has everything to do with problem solving. Learning math (much like learning philosophy
English, or Engineering) means learning to take something complicated and break it into
smaller pieces to understand them better. Math trains your mind to look at a problem,
break it into smaller problems which you can solve individually. It also forces you
to state your assumptions. Gibbards Theorem holds for any "deterministic process of
collective decision" where each of those words has a very precise meaning.
