---
layout: post
title:  "Life Lately"
date:   2019-01-23 10:11:00 -1000
---

I think I'll start this post as I've started so many others. I'm sitting on a plane, on my way to Maui. Travis,
Shalae, and Sue sit in the row in front of me. They found me at the gate in LAX having themselves flown in from
Utah. I woke up this morning at a time I'd normally consider late--to go to sleep that is (2:30a)--and took the
bus down from Santa Barbara to LAX. We're all flying in to celebrate my dad's birthday, but he doesn't know it
yet. Annie's got a bit surprise party planned... She has someone famous' son as the singer. Pat Stevens Jr. maybe?

The last few weeks have been a stressful reintegration into working life. Not that I'm stressed by the work, I
actually enjoy it. The stress has come from months of being largely unavailable leading to lots of loose ends
to tie up and requests to fulfil. Mostly I'm coping but some of my clients are seeing the strain of it more than
others. I need to step it up for a couple months and prove my value so I can go back to the more carefree
attitude to work. Hopefully I'll have learned from this last few months how to better stay on top of commitments.

There's a story most of anyone reading this will have heard first hand about adventures all across Europe with a
particularly fun adventure with a Parisenne in Stockholm that lead me to Paris. I promise I'll tell the tale
someday. Yet while part of the point of this blog is to record for myself how I felt as the stories I tell took
place, I don't yet want to go into detail on that particular story. It has lead to personal growth as I consider
what I'm looking for in this time of my life. Both in people and adventures. The part that is relevant to the
discussion of work I've given so far is that I spent a significant amount of time where each day I would choose
whether to work or not. This is not a sustainable attitude and regardless of whether bosses or clients might
tolerate it, it leads to a deeper involvement of work in my life as an ever present task that must be accounted
for.

I do think a certain degree of flexibility helps, and even a certain degree of availability outside of normal
working hours can be fair. Especially when traded for the flexibility to travel to remote distant timezones. The
issues only really rear their head when a feeling of being behind on things begins to set in. Thus most of my
Europe trip was carefree, profitable, and agreeable to all parties involved. It was mostly while I was visiting
my parents for the holidays where I spent large parts of my day fretting about how I was spending my day.
This is a recipe to sit and read at home or Reddit while everyone else goes and has a fun surf day or something
like that.

Being in Santa Barbara for a couple weeks has been good for me and my mental state, even if its been blindingly
work and being home. I'm committing to myself to have the ability to break free and move to a more relaxed work
pace in a couple months. Likely it will be with more travel (I'm thinking Asia next).