---
layout: post
title:  "Landing in Rome"
date:   2020-10-19 +0100
---

![Sheyne and Nelly on the plane on their way to rome]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/takeoff-for-rome.jpg)

Nelly and I spent last week in Italy. It was a continuous rush of adventure
facilitated partially by renting a car. It all started minutes to the end of
Monday when we landed in Rome. There we were, knowing we could book a car but
unable to actually locate the rental facilities. As we struggled to follow the
signs to the rental place I began to rush which contrasted with Nelly's
confidence that everything would work out fine.

![Sheyne driving the car]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/driving-in-italy.jpg)

After figuring out the car and checking in at the hostel, we decided to take
advantage of the bright empty city night and visited the Fontana di Trevi and
the Villa de Medici.

![Sheyne standing in front of the Trevi Fountain]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/trevi-fountain.jpg)

What an experience this was. Rome was empty. We took in the night, the light,
the statues, the fountain--aside from the two of us the only humans we saw were
a couple cops sitting in a car near the fountain. At the time, I didn't realize
what a privilege this was, knowing not the significance of the fountain nor how
crowded it would be in daylight. I would find out a week later when we returned
to Rome. 

![Nelly in front of the Plaza de Espana]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/nelly-in-front-of-the-plaza-de-espana.jpg)

The next day I spent a couple hours struggling trying to park in Rome. At the
time I was very new to Italy's laissez-faire attitude towards parking (and
driving in general). Finally we parked in a parking structure and went to the
Mercato Centrale--an indoor market with lots of food an coffee. Here Nelly took
her class and I went to see some parks, some churches, and the Colosseum.

![Nelly bringing me food at the mercado centrale]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/mercado-centrale.jpg)

I'm still learning how to visit cities. I'm not sure what the best solution is.
Should I get a list of all the things people say to do in a city and look at
what appeals to me or should I just wander around discovering things? In this
case I found a basilica on a map and walked to it. After exploring the basilica
for a while, I saw a park and wandered around. The park was a perfect example of
what it's like to wander Rome (or Italy for that matter). They have buildings
all around, but places with ruins interspersed (and fenced off). This park was
full of cool ruins. As I kept walking I ran into the Colosseum. You might think
the ruins in the park were just because of the proximity to the Colosseum, but
this kind of thing was all over the place.

![Some sights I saw in Rome]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/rome-collage-1.jpg)
