---
layout: post
title:  "Italy and the Sublime"
date:   2020-10-28 12:26:00 +0100
---

![Sheyne and Nelly on the plane on their way to rome]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/takeoff-for-rome.jpg)

Nelly and I spent last week in Italy. It was a continuous rush of adventure
facilitated partially by renting a car. It all started minutes to the end of
Monday when we landed in Rome. There we were, knowing we could book a car but
unable to actually locate the rental facilities. As we struggled to follow the
signs to the rental place I began to rush which contrasted with Nelly's
confidence that everything would work out fine.

![Sheyne standing in front of the Trevi Fountain]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/trevi-fountain.jpg)

After searching for a while we did find the rental facilities. Despite brief
concern that all the rental desks were closed, we found one tucked away with a
woman still at the desk. She had one car left and discounted it for us because
it was a relatively nice and our only option. While significantly more than the
advertised rates on the internet it wasn't too expensive. Be warned, they're all
lies. The car rental so exceptionally make the trip that it was well worth it.
Plus it was fun to drive the nicer car. It had plenty of power, a nice
difference from my earlier cheapest-available-option selection method in the UK.


![Sheyne driving the car]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/driving-in-italy.jpg)

While we were booking the car we tried to communicate with our hostel in Rome.
They said midnight would be fine. Unfortunately, driving into Rome took longer
than we expected and we called a pretty pissed off hostel host at about 01:30a.
Apparently we were the second group of people to arrive very late (or very early
the next day). After checking in, we decided to take advantage of the bright
empty city night and visited the Fontana di Trevi and the Villa de Medici. What
an experience this was. Rome was empty. We took in the night, the light, the
statues, the fountain--aside from the two of us the only humans we saw were a
couple cops sitting in a car near the fountain. At the time, I didn't realize
what a privilege this was, knowing not the significance of the fountain nor how
crowded it would be in daylight. I would find out a week later when we returned
to Rome. 

![Nelly in front of the Plaza de Espana]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/nelly-in-front-of-the-plaza-de-espana.jpg)

![Nelly bringing me food at the mercado centrale]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/mercado-centrale.jpg)

The next day I spent a couple hours struggling trying to park in Rome. At the
time I was very new to Italy's laissez-faire attitude towards parking (and
driving in general). Finally we parked in a parking structure and went to the
Mercato Centrale--an indoor market with lots of food an coffee. Here Nelly took
her class and I went to see some parks, some churches, and the Colosseum.

![Some sights I saw in Rome]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/rome-collage-1.jpg)

Afterwards we drove up into the mountains, to a small town called Mascioni. Here
we stayed at the nicest little hotel (Locanda Mausonium) with a very sweet host.
We were in a tiny town next to a beautiful lake with snowy mountains in the
background. The man from the hotel cooked us dinner and I had a nice carafe of
wine and great food. 

![Me standing in the lake near Mascioni]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/mascioni.gif)

![Some pasta we ate at the hotel in Mascioni]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/food-mascioni.jpg)

The next day we truly drove up truly into the mountains. Since the funicular
wasn't running we drove the long way round to a high plateau with a hostel and
indulged in Italian coffee for Nelly and a beer for me. 

![A beer in the mountains]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/beer-in-the-mountains.jpg)

![A view of Nelly and the land below the mountain Corno Grande]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/the-plains-below-corno-grande.jpg)

Then we started the hike. I'd found it online and the comments said not for the
faint of heart. Parts of it supposedly felt more like bouldering or scrambling
than hiking. I was excited. A ways into the trail we ran into snow. Then more
snow. Very significant quantities of snow. You dear reader, if you are reading
my blog, probably know me well enough to know I hate turning around on a hike,
and love to push forward in difficult terrain. Yenna, Nalu, Jensen--I'm sorry
again for trying to drag the sensible ones up the Iao needle but simultaneously
stand 100% behind the achieveability of the endeavour. Sis I still treasure the
look of relief on your face I got lost on the bamboo forest trail and you found
me again. Even if the relief was immediately replaced with a tirade about how
foolish I was. Anyway, Nelly and I were hiking on what was either hard 4th class
or easy 5th class terrain, but it was so covered in snow that I was postholing 3
feet into the snow and had a faint concern that I'd cause an avalanche.

![A highlighted trail up corno grande]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/path-up-corno.jpg)

![Me taking in the view]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/view-corno-grande.jpg)

Nelly handled the whole thing like a champ, and even I was starting to think
maybe we should turn around when she stopped. Of course wanted to continue. But
we'd just passed through a bunch of snow and were on a rocky section with no
handholds. After soul searching for 10 minutes we finally decided to turn
around. At this point I started to understand that we've definitely pushed her
comfort around heights to the limit. Downclimbing is always harder, and this
time was no different. Slowly but surely we make it back to level(ish) ground.
Once I felt secure, I indulged in running and sliding though the snow, a very
poorly timed indulgence with a still unsettled Nelly. Especially considering we
weren't yet on completely certain ground. The extent of the wisdom of our
decision to turn around when we did was further confirmed as the sun started to
get lower in the sky and the soft snow began to harden into slick ice, making
even the safer parts of the trail treacherous.

![Me having escaped the most dangerous part of the hike]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/corno-grande-and-treachery.jpg)

Read up on:

a) stanford plato article on the sublime and aesthetics
b) kant + sublime in the natural world
c) kant + mathematical sublime? 
d) edmond burke

The whole experience pivoted into a discussion of the sublime and why we are
drawn to nature and wilderness. Nelly talked about the view that the sublime
calls to us because it takes us out of the manufactured safety that surrounds us
in much of our world and shows us how small and insignificant we really are. It
is the feeling of standing on the beach and seeing the expanse of the sea. I'm
not sure if I fully agree with this notion of the sublime as a feeling of danger
or more a desire to experience as much of the fullness of nature as I can. I do
share the draw to be out in the wilderness. Whether or not being in the shadow
of a mountain draws its beauty from a feeling of danger or other feelings of
excitement the natural beauty had an added depth from from the trials of the
day. 

![Nelly journaling after getting down from Corno Grande]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/nelly-journaling-after-corno-grande.jpg)

![Nelly journaling after getting down from Corno Grande]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/nelly-journaling-after-corno-grande.jpg)

The other thing we discussed were our respective responses to the huge wild area
in front of us. Being from the western US, this isn't a very foreign feeling to
me, but to Nelly--whose experience lies far more in Europe and Asia--it felt
much more special. I wonder if that feeling of safety or danger tied up in the
wild and the sublime depends in part on this context. The existentialists and
transcendentalist who first wrote about the feeling were escaping the city and
manicured country life after all. 

![Breakfast in Barrea]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/barrea-breakfast.jpg)

That night we drove to Barrea, another small Italian town on a lake in the
mountains. Barrea has some kind of mythology about elves sewn into its character
and our first exposure to this was that we stayed at a hotel named for the
elves: Albergo dagli Elfi. Barrea is a tiny magical town with lots of incredibly
skinny streets--the widest of which I drove the car down and we just about had
both mirrors touching the walls. Many apparently branching streets were all
apparently the same as we came across "Leonardo" addresses again and again. It's
also very cool because its on a hill next to the outlet of the lake and has
panoramic views of a massive canyon behind.

![Me taking in the view from a railing in Barrea]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/sheyne-on-a-railing-in-barrea.jpg)

We went across the lake and had an incredible lunch and a short hike before
driving to Naples. 

![Naples]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/napoli.jpg)

Napoli was something else. I can even begin to put it down. It was packed with
people. It had a thriving nightlife. The press of human bodies moving around the
streets on foot, moped, and by car felt 3rd worldly in a way that I'd never
experienced before. Naples made driving in Rome feel like driving back in the US
by comparison. Cars pulling out in front of you, mopeds appearing from every
corner, ahead, behind, parking anywhere, running lights, ignoring cops. It was
insanity. And I think I learned several valuable lessons about driving under
pressure. I only stalled a few times. Admittedly that probably should have been
zero. 

![View from above Naples of Vesuvius]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/vesuvius.jpg)

The next day was spent mostly at a very cool museum. We saw spectacular ancient
sculptures, mosaics from Pompeii, and beautiful paintings. It was really nice to
have an incredibly knowledgeable guide whom I could bombard with questions. 

![The restaurant in Sorrento]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/restaurant-in-sorrento.jpg)

That afternoon we drove to Sorrento. We managed to stay in this fantastic hotel
on the water, presumably because everything was empty for COVID.

![The bay in Sorrento]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/sorrento.jpg)

The next morning I swam in the Mediterranean which was as gorgeous and clear as
it was last year in Nice, although not as warm and sunny. Following this we
drove along the Amalfi coast and I did a hike (or at least part of a hike)
called Sentiero degli Dei (the path of the gods). 

![The trail of the gods]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/sentiero-degli-dei.jpg)

![Pizza in Amalfi]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/amalfi-pizza.jpg)

After a lovely meal and some nice desserts in Amalfi, we headed inland and drove
back to Rome. On the way we had a gorgeous view of Vesuvius. Parking in Rome
was a bit of a challenge, but overall it was pretty straight forward to get
checked in. The next day I fully embraced tourism while Nelly got caught up on
some work. 

![Pizza in Amalfi]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/vesuvius-on-the-way-to-rome.jpg)

Finally we drove to the airport and flew home to Paris. 

![A bridge in rome]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/bridge-in-rome.jpg)

![A park in rome]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/park-in-rome.jpg)

![The Colosseum]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/colosseum.jpg)

![A panorama of Rome]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/panorama-rome.jpg)

![The view from the plane as we flew into Paris, including the Eiffel Tower]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/approaching-paris.jpg)