---
layout: post
title:  "Where in the world is Sheyne?"
date:   2021-08-17
---

Where have I been, what have I been up to? 

Well, I'm sitting on a train on my way from one of Milano's airports to Como
Lago. I'll soon meet up with my dad and step mom in Milano and we'll head south
for Cinque Terre.

This year started in Santa Barbara CA, and moved to Ogden, SLC, and Zion UT,
Hamden CT, NYC for a second, Paris, Zürich, Stockholm, and all over France.
Hopefully each of these will get a chapter. You've already heard a little bit
about Lily and there is certainly more to tell. Meghan recently sent me videos
of her turning herself over. How exciting. 

Since then I've been largely in Paris. For a couple weeks my mom visited and in
addition to doing so Paris sightseeing we visited Kusi and Gabi in Zürich for
Gabi's birthday and also went to Stockholm. I was pretty overwhelmed with work
which undercut things a bit but it was still a grand time.

I also rented a car and drove to the mediterranean coast with Nellie. On the way
we stopped in Grenoble and adjoining mountains, Ardèche, Crest (pronounced
Cray), down to Aix en Provence, and finally to the coast. Along the way we saw
beautiful mountains and hiked to the top, met up with her brothers' families,
and found some pretty cool places to rock climb. 

I'm saying now that I'll go and update this post with photos when I have better
internet, but we both know the chances of that aren't great. Until my next post
dear reader, please take care.

Sheyne