---
layout: post
title:  "The Adventure Begins (or Oh! What a Week)"
date:   2022-06-19
---

The plan for this summer is to road trip around and do adventures in cool
places. When I flew back to the mainland, no sooner had I landed in Seattle then
I was on the road heading for Bend, OR. I took a conference call from the
car--Zoom virtual backgrounds somehow made it look like I was in an office with
just a little hint of a seatbelt on my shoulder.

![Photo of me in the car on Zoom]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/------------.jpeg)

We landed in Terrebonne (north of Bend and adjacent to our target: Smith Rock)
and stayed with a friend of Mattie's, Em. I finished out my friday working from
her house then met up Mattie and her friends in Bend. Saturday was a big day of
climbing. We did two multipitches (climbs that take place over several pieces)
and were starting on a third when it started to rain and we had to bail--after
helping out a group that had forgotten to untie the stopper knot in their rope
before pulling down their top-rope. Sunday was a good exercise in bringing ropes
and other climbing gear to the wall as we attempted the same climb that we had
the day before and got rained out again. We had a nice evening in Bend and on
Monday after work tried a new climb. This one had a hell of a long approach hike
in the hot sun but amazing climbing and stellar views of Smith from the top.
While it was twilight by the time we were crossing the stream to get back to the
car, it was hot enough I jumped in the river anyway. Tuesday after work we took
another crack at Dirty Pinkos (the climb we'd been rained out of twice), the
third time proved the charm and we completed the climb.

Summer scoreboard so far:

| Route                | Grade | Pitches | Date            | Area              |
| -------------------- | ----- | ------- | --------------- | ----------------- |
| Voyage of the Cowdog | 5.8+  |       3 |  June 4th, 2022 | Smith Rock, OR    |
| Wherever I may Roam  | 5.9   |       5 |  June 4th, 2022 | Smith Rock, OR    |
| Dirty Pinkos         | 5.9+  | 1 / ~4~ |  June 4th, 2022 | Smith Rock, OR    |
| Dirty Pinkos         | 5.9+  | 1 / ~4~ |  June 5th, 2022 | Smith Rock, OR    |
| Birds in a Rut       | 5.7   |       6 |  June 6th, 2022 | Smith Rock, OR    |
| Dirty Pinkos         | 5.9+  |       4 |  June 7th, 2022 | Smith Rock, OR    |

We then headed to Boise where we visited my godparents Drew and Sheri. We had a
couple nice days in Boise and a lovely dinner. It was great to see Drew and
Sheri and we'll have to visit again because we missed their kids Heidi and Fred.
Boise has not 1, not 2, but 3 [citation needed] man made surf waves in the
river. We went and watched people surfing and it looked pretty cool. We also
checked out several of Boise's cool parks and the Anne Frank memorial.

After that we headed to City of Rocks for the weekend. We managed to cram a
bunch of climbing in. Rye Crisp was particularly interesting because we didn't
have the right gear to protect it--a good crack running up the whole way, but so
wide that it took all of the big cams and we ran out. Mattie had to do a fair
amount of back cleaning and got so exhausted running up and down it cleaning it
that I ended up having to finish the route.

| Route                | Grade | Pitches | Date            | Area              |
| -------------------- | ----- | ------- | --------------- | ----------------- |
| Big Time             | 5.7   |       4 | June 11th, 2022 | Castle Rocks, ID  |
| Fruit Pie            | 5.8   |       3 | June 11th, 2022 | Castle Rocks, ID  |
| Rye Crisp            | 5.8   |       1 | June 11th, 2022 | City of Rocks, ID |
| Sinocranium          | 5.8   |       6 | June 12th, 2022 | City of Rocks, ID |
| Felspfeiler          | 5.8   |       1 | June 12th, 2022 | City of Rocks, ID |

Here's to a big summer!

Sheyne