---
layout: post
title:  "May the Fourth be with You"
date:   2022-05-04
---

Happy Star Wars day folks. I am homeward bound: for the first time in several
years I'm flying to Maui. I am super excited to check out little baby Lily and
her new skill: walking. I'm excited to see her mom and our mom. My dad and Annie
wont be there when I first arrive, but they'll be there soon after.

My last few months have held a lot of change. I switched jobs and am now working
at Lucid Software helping to make visual collaboration software (most famously
Lucid Chart). I am really excited to get into this job as it will be a big
change of pace for me, going from being often the sole developer on several
projects to being one of many working towards one cohesive whole. I specifically
am working on something we call the Data Platform that handles communicating
with 3rd party services and making their data available for use in our products.

I started dating a wonderful girl, Mattie, and have been staying with her along
Lake Stevens, Washington. She is an avid climber to the point of near obsession.
I'd say that climbing is not just her first but also her second and third
favorite hobbies. She's also into several outdoor activities; we spent a many
days snowboarding together. My last weekend near Seattle we just spent a great
weekend in the city where we got a hotel, visited the Seattle Art Museum, used
her work to get the the top of a high-rise, had several nice meals, and visited
the locks which connect the freshwater Lake Union to the Sound. The locks we
particularly exciting because the tides were quite low, leading to a
particularly large difference in water levels. It was rather nice when Mattie
wanted to stay and watch not just the smaller lock but the bigger one undergo a
transit.

I'd like to say I'll go back an pick photos to add to this post when I have
internet, but looking back on the history of this blog we can see I have a
pretty bad track record of following through on that sort of thing.

I hope I'll see a bunch of you, my dear readers, on the island very soon.

Sheyne
